Port MASTG-TEST-0005: Determining Whether Sensitive Data Is Shared with Third Parties via Notifications (android) (#3464)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-STORAGE/MASTG-TEST-00x05.md

---
platform: android
title: Sensitive Data Leaked via Notifications

> id: MASTG-TEST-00x05 // TODO replace with real ID

Reviewer: Same as below.

This is intentional. We wait until the PR is about to be merged otherwise we keep having collisions and conflicts.

apis: [NotificationManager]
type: [static, dynamic]
weakness: MASWE-0054
prerequisites:
- identify-sensitive-data
profiles: [L1, L2]
---

## Overview

> This test case checks if the application leaks sensitive data via notifications to third parties.

Reviewer 2: Let's shift some of the details from the steps section into the overview. I would refrain from using `third parties` as that might indicate the data is shared via HTTP to a service/SDK that the app is using.

```suggestion
This test verifies that the app uses notifications correctly to avoid exposing sensitive information, such as personal data. On Android developers typically request for the runtime permission `POST_NOTIFICATIONS` that allows the app to send notifications. The creation of notifications can be handled through [`NotificationCompat.Builder`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/core/app/NotificationCompat.Builder) or `setContentTitle` or `setContentText` from [`Notification.Builder`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/Notification.Builder).

The usage of notifications shouldn't expose sensitive information that might otherwise be accidentally disclosed via e.g. shoulder surfing or sharing the device with another person.
```

## Steps

> 1. Run a static analysis tool such as @MASTG-TOOL-0110 on the app source to identify if the `POST_NOTIFICATIONS` permission is declared in the manifest file (for above Android API 33). That would be an indication that the app creates notifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Reverse engineer the app (@MASTG-TECH-0017).
2. Run a static analysis tool such as @MASTG-TOOL-0110 on the reverse-engineered app to identify if the `POST_NOTIFICATIONS` permission is declared in the manifest file (for above Android API 33). This would indicate that the app creates notifications.
```

> 2. Run a static analysis tool such as @MASTG-TOOL-0110 on the app source, or run the app and use a dynamic analysis with @MASTG-TECH-0033 and a tool like @MASTG-TOOL-0001 and start tracing all calls to functions related to the notifications creation, e.g. `setContentTitle` or `setContentText` from [`Notification.Builder`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/Notification.Builder) or[`NotificationCompat.Builder`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/core/app/NotificationCompat.Builder).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Run a static analysis tool such as @MASTG-TOOL-0110 on the reverse-engineered app's source code to identify the usage of the notification APIs, or run the app and use @MASTG-TECH-0033 and a tool like @MASTG-TOOL-0001 and start tracing all calls to functions related to the notifications creation.
```

## Observation

> The output should contain a list of trace points where notifications are created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output should contain:

 - the `POST_NOTIFICATIONS` permission, if declared in the manifest file, and
 - a list of locations where notification APIs are used.
```
